## Mutation rate: parameter value extraction

For this task, we extract parameters estimated from pathogen genetic sequences. If no parameters were derived from genetic sequences, then this section can be skipped _even if sequencing was performed and reported_.

`substitution_rate`, `evolutionary_rate`, and `mutation_rate` are different `parameter_type` values for describing the speed at which genetic changes accumulate in a population. When selecting the `parameter_type`, choose the value type and units based on the wording used by the authors in the article. If there are multiple terms used for the same measure (e.g., substitution rate is used in the text, evolutionary rate is used in the table), choose either the most frequently used term or default to `substitution_rate` (if the units are substitutions per site per year). These values are often in the supplemental material. So if genetic sequences or phylogenetic analyses are presented, check the supplement. We are not extracting parameters associated with selection pressure or synonymous/nonsynonymous mutations, unless based on data or methodological limitations they have only been able to calculate substitution rate from nonsynonymous mutations (in that case specify this in the 'Gene' field, similar to in vitro experiments - see next bullet point). If substitution rates are calculated for subgroups (eg, 'clades,' 'strains,' 'branches', etc), report the global estimate and indicate disaggregated data is available in the Parameter Disaggregation section.

As always, the `unit` value is very important for these parameters. The most common unit is `substitutions_per_site_per_year`. If units are not clear or they do not match the available options in the drop-down menu, set to `unspecified`.

Fill the `genome_site` field with the portion of the pathogen’s genome used to estimate any extracted parameters (eg, reproduction number, growth rate, substitution rate). This can be a gene, a gene segment, a codon position, or a more generic description (eg, ‘whole genome’ or ‘intergenic positions’). If parameter values are independently estimated for different portions of the genome, please enter each on a separate parameter value form. If a mutation rate is estimated by in vitro experiments of recombinant variants (for example, measuring the rate of mutation in an inserted gene, such as green fluorescent protein [GFP]), enter the name of the inserted gene used, even though this gene might not be naturally occurring in the virus's genome. In addition, they may measure different types of mutations (SNPs vs indels) during in vitro experiments. If this is the case, enter the type of mutation used to calculate the rate (ex. GFP-SNP, to signify that SNP mutations in the GFP gene were used to calculate the mutation rate).
